# A Study of Control Contraction Analysis via Sum-of-Squares Programming

Lyapunov functions have been one of the most important results/tools used in nonlinear system stability analysis and stabilizing control. However, finding a Lyapunov function for general nonlinear systems can be challenging. Contraction analysis provides an alternative perspective as it studies incremental stability between two arbitrary trajectories. The key idea is to construct the minimum-length path (geodesic) from one trajectory to another, and analyze the differential element of said geodesic. The benefit is that the differential dynamics along the geodesic of any nonlinear system is a linear time-varying one, which makes designing the Lyapunov functions of the differential element of said geodesic easier. By finding such differential Lyapunov functions, the framework can certify convergence of two trajectories and it also extends to control design that tracks a reference trajectory.

In the literature, the differential Lyapunov function is in the specific form of Riemannian distance of the geodesic, which is the norm under a Riemannian metric. Stability analysis and tracking controller design are reduced to finding that Riemannian metric and evaluating a path integral. Using a sum-of-squares programming approach, finding the control contraction metric (CCM) becomes a convex programming problem.

In this project, we study the main theoretical results of control contraction analysis and explore algorithmic implementation of computing CCM and synthesizing CCM-based tracking controller using SOS programming in the pydrake environment. There are two Deepnote .ipynb notebooks: one contains examples of finding a contraction metric to certify stability, another one contains examples of computing CCM and a tracking controller.

In the scope of the project, the progress so far includes successful construction of a constant contraction metric-based smooth (continuous-time) tracking control for a polynomial system (see Section V-B Case 1). There are a few things that have not been sufficiently explored: (1) accurate approximation of the geodesic, specifically, the geodesic should be a smooth path, but we approximate it with straight line segments which might lead to issues with path-integral controller design (2) Discrete-time implementation of contraction metrics, as discussed in Section V-B Case 2 and 3. The main challenge with the geodesic approximation is that the minimum-length line segment approximation results in a non-convex optimization problem, which may get stuck in local minimum, hence not able to recover the true geodesic.

The project uses Mosek solver, which has a free academic license that can be acquired locally and then uploaded to a Deepnote project (not provided in this repo). If you are interested in contraction analysis, I will be happy to help with environment setup and explain my implementation. (Feel free to email me at tangsun@mit.edu)
